Update open-design.md (#290)
BitcoinDesign/Guide: guide/getting-started/open-design.md

# Open design

**Open design is an alternative design and development method based on the free exchange of information.**

By balancing the independence of individual designers and the collective power of collaboration, open design enables and promotes the convictions and passions of designers working towards the benefit of society.

Open design can manifest in many different ways. You might:

* help design the interface of your favorite open-source project
* collaborate with people and projects in areas related to specific topics of interest

> * create a design resource library like an icon or illustration set or a UI kit

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* create a design resource library like an icon set or a UI kit
```

* help test an open-source product and provide feedback
* [contribute](/guide/contribute/) to the Bitcoin Design Guide

> Whatever you choose to do, open design projects are voluntary public contributions. From this work, a network of people and projects emerge connected by personal relationships, specialized communities, and sharing the work. This is different from corporate structures that require individuals to think and act independently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Whatever you choose to do, open design projects are voluntary public contributions. From this work, a network of people and projects emerge connected by personal relationships, specialized communities, and sharing of work. This is different from corporate structures and requires individuals to think and act more independently.
```

Open-source development has existed and matured for decades, while open design is not widely known or practiced. Starting to design for Bitcoin products can sometimes be disorienting. Many designers need to adjust not just how they work and collaborate but also the relationship to their work. No longer is the design an artifact only controlled by just the designer or a small group of people inside an organization.
In open-source software, public review and debate lead to better products and services. Open-source development has existed for decades, while open design is not widely known or practiced. Designing for bitcoin products, especially for newcomers in an open design setting, can be disorienting and require adjustments to how they work and collaborate. No longer is work the exclusive product of them or a small, localized team; instead, it becomes part of a public conversation.

The design instead becomes part of a public conversation where anyone is invited to help shape it, and group consensus influences the way forward. In open-source software, this public review and debate often lead to better products and services, and this effect ideally carries over to open design.

> The best solutions typically come from a comprehensive understanding of the problem to be solved, whether technical, human, societal, economic, or otherwise. This makes a multidisciplinary approach essential, with users, designers, developers, translators, project managers, and others working together.

Reviewer: Why was this paragraph removed? Isn't it good to point out how important multidisciplinary collaboration is?

Author: I assume it seemed a bit repetitive, but I see it can be important to mention different kinds of contributions. I've put it back and slightly re-written it, to make it more concise, how does it seem now with https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/290/commits/e1e2978ab41c6df2eaef38bbd512dbcceda0697b ?

Reviewer: Looks good. Thank you.

> The spirit of openness is deeply embedded into bitcoin; the source code is public, participation in the network is public and unrestricted, and transferring value via the bitcoin protocol is permissionless. Thousands of projects have borrowed ideas, techniques, and code from bitcoin to create their open-source experiments. For designers who aim to work collaboratively, it’s a robust foundation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The spirit of openness is deeply embedded into Bitcoin; the source code is public, participation in the network is public and unrestricted, and transferring value via the Bitcoin protocol is permissionless. Thousands of projects have borrowed ideas, techniques, and code from Bitcoin to create their open-source experiments. For designers who aim to work collaboratively, it’s a robust foundation.
```

> We could even argue that bitcoin needs open design to stay true to its mission, principles, and philosophy. Most users don’t interact directly with technical protocols but with the applications built on top of it. If those applications are centrally controlled or manipulated, it won’t matter if the protocol is open. So it is up to the community to ensure that bitcoin remains [decentralized](/guide/foundations/principles/#decentralization) and allows for permissionless participation at the open-source application layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We could even argue that Bitcoin needs open design to stay true to its mission, principles, and philosophy. Most users don’t interact directly with technical protocols but with the applications built on top of it. If those applications are centrally controlled or manipulated, it won’t matter if the protocol is open. So it is up to the community to ensure that Bitcoin remains [decentralized](/guide/foundations/principles/#decentralization) and allows for permissionless participation at the open-source application layer.
```

- share our process and work in a transparent way
- make it easy for others to build on our work and ideas
- aim for inclusivity
- approach problems with an open-mind
- embrace multidisciplinary feedback
- rely on our peers for quality assurance and validation
- fulfill the open design group’s goals through action

We value:

- moral and responsible choices
- products that solve real problems and address real needs

> - usability accessibility for the broadest possible range of people, locations, and backgrounds

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- usability and accessibility for the broadest possible range of people, locations, and backgrounds
```

- highly functional aesthetic elements that influence both how people feel and think

> ## Getting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Getting started
```

> If you are new to open design for bitcoin, which many are, it can be tricky to find a place to start. Not only is the tech complex, but there are few educational resources available. The  [Contribute page]({{ '/contribute' | relative_url }}) is a good starting point. These tips can also help you find your footing:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are new to open design for Bitcoin, which many are, it can be tricky to find a place to start. Not only is the tech complex, but there are few educational resources available. The [contribute page]({{ '/contribute' | relative_url }}) is a good starting point. These tips can also help you find your footing:
```

If you are completely new to open design, it can feel tricky to find a starting point in the Bitcoin ecosystem. Not only is the technology complex, but there are also few design resources available. A good starting point is the [Contribute]({{ '/contribute' | relative_url }}) page, and here are a few extra tips to help you find your way around in general:

- Join the [Bitcoin Design Community]({{site.slack_invite_url}}) on Slack and see what others are discussing. A good way to get started is by asking questions and joining conversations that interest you. Our [Community Calls](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Meta/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+Community+Call) and [Design Review](https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Meta/issues?q=is%3Aissue+is%3Aopen+Design+Review+Call+) calls are also great ways to get active.
- Download a Bitcoin wallet and experiment with small amounts. You can also use Testnet, which allows you to use all the features, but with worthless test bitcoin. Pay attention to the experience and come up with ways to improve it.

> - Redesign a Bitcoin application of your choice. Even as a brief exercise, a redesign is a great way to develop a deeper understanding of how something works and why certain decisions were made.

Reviewer: Why not recommend people to do design exercises? I personally find these super helpful and educational.

Author: Removed by mistake, accidentally duplicated the paragraph and overlooked this. Nice catch fixed in https://github.com/BitcoinDesign/Guide/pull/290/commits/e1e2978ab41c6df2eaef38bbd512dbcceda0697b
